research.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/
---

{% include embedhighlight.html%}

## MPTCP
My current project focuses on evaluating multipath transport protocols and how they behave in data center environments. I am mainly focusing on Multipath TCP and how it can improve the performance of various workloads in the data center such as VM Migrations and big data workloads. We are evaluating whether the throughput gains from mptcp can provide a large enough performance benefit for these workloads. This work will be part of my masters synthesis project at UMass. 

## Edge Clouds
My thesis will likely focus on edge clouds and their performance aspects. We are currently looking at modeling different properties of edge clouds and how they compare to standard data centers. This work is still early in its development. A dedicated page on edge clouds can be found here: [Edge Clouds](/research/edgeclouds/)

## Virtualization

My first project was focused on comparing different virtualization platforms, such as Hardware and Operating System, and evaluating how they perform at scale. We evaluated their performance under a variety of conditions including under various interference conditions. We found that virtualization platforms performed differently depending on the type of resource competition. We evaluated each platform when their was condition for similar resources, for orthogonal resources and when an adversarial VM was present. We also evaluated several qualitative properties of each platform. 

Our results were presented in a paper at the 17th proceedings of the International Middleware Conference in Trento, Italy. Our paper can be found [here](/research/containers-vms).

---

# Online Research Notebook

I maintain an open online research notebook that details my weekly research progress as an attempt to open up research to everyone. My notebook contains a single page per week that summarizes tasks I accomplished as well as any interesting results and thoughts. I hope to keep iterating over this format to provide the most convenient access to my research as possible. My notebook can be found [here](/notebook).


---

# Publications

**Fast Transparent Virtual Machine Migration in Distributed Edge Clouds**<br/>
Lucas Chaufournier, Prateek Sharma, Franck Le, Erich Nahum, Prashant Shenoy, Don Towsley<br/>
ACM/IEEE Symposium on Edge Computing 2017; To Appear

**Containers and Virtual Machines at Scale: A Comparative Study**  
Prateek Sharma, Lucas Chaufournier, Prashant Shenoy, Y.C. Tay  
Middleware 2016 [paper](/research/containers-vms/)
      
**CloudNet: Dynamic Pooling of Cloud Resources by Live WAN Migration of Virtual Machines**  
T. Wood, K K. Ramakrishnan, P. Shenoy, J. van der Merwe, J. Hwang, G. Liu and L. Chaufournier  
IEEE Transactions on Networking (TON), 2014. [paper](/research/cloudnet)

Commit message:

updated website with sec data

research.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/
---

{% include embedhighlight.html%}

## MPTCP
My current project focuses on evaluating multipath transport protocols and how they behave in data center environments. I am mainly focusing on Multipath TCP and how it can improve the performance of various workloads in the data center such as VM Migrations and big data workloads. We are evaluating whether the throughput gains from mptcp can provide a large enough performance benefit for these workloads. This work will be part of my masters synthesis project at UMass. 

## Edge Clouds
My thesis will likely focus on edge clouds and their performance aspects. We are currently looking at modeling different properties of edge clouds and how they compare to standard data centers. This work is still early in its development. A dedicated page on edge clouds can be found here: [Edge Clouds](/research/edgeclouds/). We recently published a paper on Live 
Migrating Virtual Machines at the edge with MPTCP. This work can be found here: [MPTCP Migrations](/research/mptcp-migrations)

## Virtualization

My first project was focused on comparing different virtualization platforms, such as Hardware and Operating System, and evaluating how they perform at scale. We evaluated their performance under a variety of conditions including under various interference conditions. We found that virtualization platforms performed differently depending on the type of resource competition. We evaluated each platform when their was condition for similar resources, for orthogonal resources and when an adversarial VM was present. We also evaluated several qualitative properties of each platform. 

Our results were presented in a paper at the 17th proceedings of the International Middleware Conference in Trento, Italy. Our paper can be found [here](/research/containers-vms).

---

# Online Research Notebook

I maintain an open online research notebook that details my weekly research progress as an attempt to open up research to everyone. My notebook contains a single page per week that summarizes tasks I accomplished as well as any interesting results and thoughts. I hope to keep iterating over this format to provide the most convenient access to my research as possible. My notebook can be found [here](/notebook).


---

# Publications

**Fast Transparent Virtual Machine Migration in Distributed Edge Clouds**<br/>
Lucas Chaufournier, Prateek Sharma, Franck Le, Erich Nahum, Prashant Shenoy, Don Towsley<br/>
ACM/IEEE Symposium on Edge Computing 2017; [paper](/research/mptcp-migrations)

**Containers and Virtual Machines at Scale: A Comparative Study**  
Prateek Sharma, Lucas Chaufournier, Prashant Shenoy, Y.C. Tay  
Middleware 2016 [paper](/research/containers-vms/)
      
**CloudNet: Dynamic Pooling of Cloud Resources by Live WAN Migration of Virtual Machines**  
T. Wood, K K. Ramakrishnan, P. Shenoy, J. van der Merwe, J. Hwang, G. Liu and L. Chaufournier  
IEEE Transactions on Networking (TON), 2014. [paper](/research/cloudnet)
