---
layout: post-no-feature
title: "I Just Saw Spectre"
subtitle: "An Opinion Piece"
date: 2015-11-22 10:46:47 +0530
category: [opinion-pieces]
---
<span class = "kern"><span class = "initial">S</span>p</span>ectre is the latest in the decade old James Bond franchise. Directed by Sam Mendes the movie stars Daniel Craig as 007 and Lea Seydoux as Madeleine Swann. After watching the movie I am both satisfied and dissatisfied. Believe me the trailer showed you most of the better sequences. The closest this movie gets to Skyfall is the scene at L'American where Bond is drunk and talks to a mice. The best thing I liked about Daniel Craig 007 was that he spoke very little and his smiles were always around his eyes -- a cool and detached smile. Now we have Daniel Craig trying to act like Pierce Brosnan and I don't like it. I think that Spectre, the secret organization was destroyed prematurely. The villain Oberhauser is not a James Bond villain at all. James Bond villains are supposed to be charming, sadistic, cunning and fame boyish. Raoul Silva in Skyfall was one hell of a villain, like Scaramanga in the Man with the Golden Gun. Oberhauser has non of those redeeming qualities and is poorly executed. I think we do have somewhat of a good start with the new M but I really do miss Judi Dench. She was the best M and brought a motherly sort of affection and humanity to the franchise.. I didn't like how Moneypenny wasn't used that much despite having huge potential although Q is there a lot. The character of Dr Swann is intriguing and was one huge redeeming quality in an otherwise bland film. The plot basically involves Spectre tying up with C, the chief of joint intelligence so as to control all the world's information. At the end of the day that should have been a great story for a James Bond movie. You know it's not when M actually starts saying lines like this, emphasising each word,

>"A licence to kill also means a licence not to kill."

<span class = "indent"></span>Really M that sounds cheesy. Try looking in a mirror and say that. One of the only three women in this film, Lucia Sciarra is a promising character but she is there all too briefly. Bond saves her life and sets her up to go to America and she gets there safe. I can't believe they did that. Every time James Bond saves someone's life and sends them to a safehouse they die. Why is she an exception<span class = "question-mark">?</span>. A lot of things are left unexplained like why Oberhauser does what he does. Why did the super cool Spectre base inside a crater explode<span class = "question-mark">?</span> Why didn't the movie end there instead of going back to London<span class = "question-mark">?</span> When has a good James Bond movie ever ended in grimy old London<span class = "question-mark">?</span>

But on the positive side, the part where Bond does a barrel roll on a helicopter above Mexico city is really intense. The film has the scariest title song sequence -- creepy and gross at the same time. So I guess this is bye bye Daniel Craig. I wonder who the next bond will be.
